these powerful bills are quite strong
enough to injure anything or anyone that
dares to interfere with the birds but
now as the pair sit together on their
nest site they're used to deliver the
most tender of caresses
what follows may seem like dueling but
actually it is once again a kind of
dancing
the sequence of movements is long and
complicated
if both partners perform without
mistakes and in harmony then a class
there comes the most intimate act of war
mating in birds can be a very quick
business no more than a brief meeting of
genital openings in albatross it's
unusually leisurely
so pairs are formed and the union is
consummated for most birds the pair will
now stay together for several weeks if
not for several years in the case of
these waved albatross in Galapagos
they'll stay together for the rest of
their lives and that when you come to
think of it it's very unusual insects
don't stay together frogs and toads
don't lizards snakes don't
why should Birds my answer is there no
female bird can manage to fly around
with an egg inside her let alone several
for the days or weeks it needs to
develop soon as she can she lays it but
then caring for it is a major job and
for these albatross has for most birds
it's a job for two it will be nice to
think that such a devoted pair was held
together by a mutual affection the
evidence I'm afraid doesn't support that
it's not so much the affection that one
bird has for the other as the concern it
has for its own genes which are in the
egg which the to reproduce together if
without jeopardizing those either bird
could find a way of spreading its genes
more widely the evidence suggests it
would take